It comes as no surprise; complex problems require complex solutions, but what if they don't always have to be this way? What if an approach was taken where current solutions are combined to not only reap benefits from each but to see if the whole is greater than the sum of its parts? Occam's Razor, a philosophical principle suggesting that the simplest explanation is often the correct one, is quite applicable to our situation. By building a framework that uses a layered architecture, we will combine near-duplicate image detection algorithms in a new way to explore possible benefits. This approach allows for easy setup of image processing systems, and exhaustive testing can be done to quickly create a combination that suits the context.

To address the difficult task of near-duplicate image detection across highly varied use cases, we used a multi-method approach with a layered architecture at the core that combines algorithms easily. Each algorithm was selected for strengths in certain aspects of image comparison as well as for its behavior when combined with others. This allowing for a robust, adaptable, yet simple detection system. Our methodology follows the design science approach and involves testing and tuning many different algorithm combinations and configurations to find the best performances in different image datasets.

The results argue that our approach can retain the impressive accuracy, precision, and general efficacy seen in other multi-method approaches. Its optimized simplicity lends itself to easy adaptability to different types of images and duplication definitions. Furthermore, the filter-like idea has been seen to have benefits in terms of detection system execution time. This suggests that a layered multi-method approach may be able to effectively enhance the capabilities of NDI detection systems. Making them approximately as effective but more adaptable in handling various situations.

**Keywords**: Near Duplicate Images, Image Processing, Layered Architecture, Algorithm Integration \end{abstract}